Claudie 0.7.0 (#1239)
berops/claudie: docs/CHANGELOG/changelog-0.7.x.md

# Claudie `v0.7`

!!! warning "Due to using the latest version of longhorn the `v0.7.x` will not be backwards compatible with `v0.6.x`"

## Deployment

To deploy Claudie `v0.7.X`, please:

1. Download the archive and checksums from the [release page](https://github.com/berops/claudie/releases)

2. Verify the archive with the `sha256` (optional)

    ```sh
    sha256sum -c --ignore-missing checksums.txt
    ```

   If valid, output is, depending on the archive downloaded

    ```sh
    claudie.tar.gz: OK
    ```

   or

    ```sh
    claudie.zip: OK
    ```

   or both.

3. Lastly, unpack the archive and deploy using `kubectl`

   > We strongly recommend changing the default credentials for MongoDB, MinIO and DynamoDB before you deploy it. To do this, change contents of the files in `mongo/secrets`, `minio/secrets` and `dynamo/secrets` respectively.

    ```sh

>     kubectl apply -k .

Reviewer: Why do we recommend downloading the source code in tar format, when there is one big yaml file containing everything needed?

Author: added both ways

Reviewer: Also, we don't have checksums for the ZIP and TAR files in our checksum TXT. At least, I haven't found them in the latest release. Did something change?

Author: I can see them there

Author: https://github.com/berops/claudie/releases/download/v0.6.6/claudie_checksum.txt

Reviewer: ![image](https://github.com/berops/claudie/assets/43497822/db765ee7-0787-450c-a020-36b1d0b5b5c6)

Author: fixed, now we only mention the yaml files

    ```

## v0.7.0

> If you already have clusters deployed, you need to manually upgrade longhorn to version 1.6.0, otherwise claudie will fail when a workflow is started for a cluster build using older 0.6.x versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have clusters deployed, you need to manually upgrade longhorn to version 1.6.0 ([see](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/deploy/upgrade/longhorn-manager/#upgrade-with-kubectl-1)), otherwise claudie will fail when a workflow is started for a cluster build using older 0.6.x versions.
```

## Deployment

To deploy Claudie `v0.7.X`, please:

1. Download the archive and checksums from the [release page](https://github.com/berops/claudie/releases)

2. Verify the archive with the `sha256` (optional)

    ```sh
    sha256sum -c --ignore-missing checksums.txt
    ```

   If valid, output is, depending on the archive downloaded

    ```sh
    claudie.tar.gz: OK
    ```

   or

    ```sh
    claudie.zip: OK
    ```

   or both.

3. Lastly, unpack the archive and deploy using `kubectl`

   > We strongly recommend changing the default credentials for MongoDB, MinIO and DynamoDB before you deploy it. To do this, change contents of the files in `mongo/secrets`, `minio/secrets` and `dynamo/secrets` respectively.

    ```sh
    kubectl apply -k .
    ```

Alternatively you can deploy claudie by using the generated yaml we provide with each release

 > We strongly recommend changing the default credentials for MongoDB, MinIO and DynamoDB before you deploy it.

```
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/berops/claudie/releases/latest/download/claudie.yaml
```

## v0.7.0

> If you already have clusters deployed, you need to manually upgrade longhorn to version 1.6.0 ([see](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/deploy/upgrade/longhorn-manager/#upgrade-with-kubectl-1)), otherwise claudie will fail when a workflow is started for a cluster build using older 0.6.x versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Upgrade procedure:*
Before upgrading Claudie, upgrade Longhorn to 1.6.x as per [this guide](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/deploy/upgrade/longhorn-manager/#upgrade-with-kubectl-1). In most cases this will boil down to running the following command:
`kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/longhorn/longhorn/v1.6.0/deploy/longhorn.yaml`.

```
